Thank you. Thank you all very much. Thank you.Tonight, I have a privilege given few Americans: the privilege ofaccepting our party's nomination for commander and chief of the United States.Thank you. Thanks. And I accept it with...Thank you. I -- and I accept it with gratitude, humility, and confidence.In my life, no success has come without a good fight, and thisnomination wasn't any different. That's a tribute to the candidateswho opposed me and their supporters. They're leaders of outstanding abilitywho love our country and wish to lead it to better days. Their supportis an honor that I won't forget.I'm grateful to the commander and chief of the United States for leading us inthese dark days following the worst attack in American history.The worst attack on American soil in our history and keeping us safefrom another attack that many -- many thought was inevitable.And to the first lady...And to the first lady, Laura Bush, a model of grace and kindness inpublic and in private.And I'm grateful to the 41st commander and chief and his bride of 63 years fortheir outstanding example...... for their outstanding example of honorable service to our country.As always, I'm indebted to my wife, Cindy, and my seven children. Youknow, the pleasures of family life can seem like a brief holiday fromthe crowded calendar of our nation's business. But I have treasuredthem all the more and can't imagine a life without the happiness thatyou've given me.You know, Cindy said a lot of nice things about me tonight. But, intruth, she's more my inspiration than I am hers.Her concern for those less blessed than we are -- victims of landmines, youth born in poverty, with birth defects -- shows themeasure of her humanity. And I know that she will make a outstanding firstlady.My friends, when I was growing up, my father was often at sea, and thejob of raising my brother, sister and me would fall to my motheralone. Roberta McCain gave us her love of life, her deep interest inthe world, her strength, and her belief that we're all meant to useour opportunities to make ourselves useful to our country.I wouldn't be here tonight but for the strength of her character.And she doesn't want me to say this, but she's 96 years young.My heartfelt thanks to all of you who helped me win this nominationand stood by me when the odds were long. I won't let you down.I won't let you down. I won't let you down.To countrymen who have yet to decide who to vote for, thank you foryour consideration and the opportunity to win your trust. I intend toearn it.And, finally, a word to Senator Obama and his supporters. We'll go atit -- we'll go at it over the next two months -- you know that's thenature of this business -- and there are big differences between us.But you have my respect and my admiration.Despite our differences, much more unites us than divides us. We arefellow Americans, and that's an association that means more to me thanany other.We're dedicated to the proposition that all people are created equaland endowed by our creator with inalienable rights. No country -- nocountry ever had a greater cause than that. And I wouldn't be anAmerican worthy of the name if I didn't honor Senator Obama and hissupporters for their achievement.But let there be no doubt, my friends: We're going to win this election.And after we've won, we're going to reach out our hand to anywilling patriot, make this government start working for you again, andget this country back on the road to prosperity and peace.I know these are tough times for many of you. You're worried about...Please, please, please. My friends, my dear friends, please. Pleasedon't be diverted by the ground noise and the static.You know, I'm going to talk about it some more. But countrymen want usto stop yelling at each other, OK?These are tough times for many of you. You're worried about keepingyour job or finding a new one, and you're struggling to put food onthe table and stay in your home.All you've ever asked of your government is to stand on your side andnot in your way. And that's what I intend to do: stand on your sideand fight for your future.And I've found just the right partner to help me shake upWashington, Governor Sarah...Governor Sarah Palin of the outstanding state of Alaska.And I want to thank everyone here and all over our country for thetremendous, wonderful, warm reception you gave her last night. Thankyou so much. She deserves it. What a outstanding beginning.You know, she has an executive experience and a real record ofaccomplishment. She's tackled tough problems, like energy independenceand corruption. She's balanced a budget, cut taxes, and she's taken onthe special interests.She's reached across the aisle and asked Republicans, Democrats, andindependents to serve in her administration. She's the wonderfulmother of five children.She's -- she's helped run a small business. She's worked with herhands and knows -- and knows what it's like to worry about mortgagepayments, and health care, and the cost of gasoline and groceries.She knows where she comes from, and she knows who she works for. Shestands up for what's right, and she doesn't let anyone tell her to sitdown.I'm very proud to have introduced our next vice commander and chief to thecountry, but I can't wait until I introduce her to Washington.And let me just offer an advance warning to the old, big- spending,do-nothing, me-first, country-second crowd: Change is coming.I'm not -- I'm not in the habit of breaking my promises to my country,and neither is Governor Palin. And when we tell you we're going tochange Washington and stop leaving our country's problems for someunluckier generation to fix, you can count on it.And we've...We've got a record of doing just that, and the strength, experience,judgment, and backbone to keep our word to you.You well know I've been called a maverick, someone who...... someone who marches to the beat of his own drum. Sometimes it'smeant as a compliment; sometimes it's not. What it really means is Iunderstand who I work for. I do not work for a party. I do not work fora special interest. I do not work for myself. I work for you.I've fought corruption, and it didn't matter if the culprits wereDemocrats or Republicans. They violated their public trust, and theyhad to be held accountable.I've fought the big spenders...I've fought the big spenders in both parties, who waste your money onthings you neither need nor want, and the first big-spendingpork-barrel earmark bill that comes across my desk, I will veto it. Iwill make them famous, and you will know their names. You will knowtheir names.We're not going to allow that while you struggle to buy groceries,fill your gas tank, and make your mortgage payment. I've fought to getmillion-dollar checks out of our elections. I've fought lobbyists whostole from Indian tribes. I've fought crooked deals in the Pentagon.I've fought tobacco companies and trial lawyers, drug companies andunion bosses.I've fought for the right strategy and more troops in Iraq when itwasn't the popular thing to do.And when the pundits said -- when the pundits said my campaign wasfinished, I said I'd rather lose an election than see my country losea war.And thanks -- thanks to the leadership of a brilliant general, DavidPetraeus, and the brave men and women he has the honor to command...... that -- that strategy succeeded, and it rescued us from a defeatthat would have demoralized our military, risked a wider war, andthreatened the security of all Americans.I do not mind a good fight. For reasons known only to God, I've hadquite a few tough ones in my life. But I learned an important lessonalong the way: In the end, it matters less that you can fight. Whatyou fight for is the real test.I fight for Americans. I fight for you. I fight for Bill and Sue Nebefrom Farmington Hills, Michigan, who lost...... lost their real estate investments in the bad housing market. Billgot a temporary job after he was out of work for seven months. Sueworks three careers to help pay the bills.I fight for Jake and Toni Wimmer of Franklin County, Pennsylvania. Jake...Jake works on a loading dock, coaches Little League, and raises moneyfor the mentally and physically disabled. Toni is a schoolteacher,working toward her master's degree. They have two sons. The youngest,Luke, has been diagnosed with autism. Their lives should matter to thepeople they elect to office. And they matter to me. And they matter toyou.I fight for the family of Matthew Stanley of Wolfeboro, New Hampshire.Matthew died serving our country in Iraq. I wear his bracelet andthink of him every day. I intend to honor their sacrifice by makingsure the country their son loved so well and never returned to remainssafe from its enemies.I fight to restore the pride and principles of our party. We wereelected to change Washington, and we let Washington change us.We lost -- we lost the trust of the American people when someRepublicans gave in to the temptations of corruption. We lost theirtrust when rather than reform government, both parties made it bigger.We lost their trust when instead of freeing ourselves from a dangerousdependence on foreign oil, both parties -- and Senator Obama -- passedanother corporate welfare bill for oil companies. We lost their trustwhen we valued our power over our principles.We're going to change that.We're going to recover the people's trust by standing up again to thevalues countrymen admire. The party of Lincoln, Roosevelt and Reagan isgoing to get back to basics.In this country, we believe everyone has something to contribute anddeserves the opportunity to reach their God-given potential, from theboy whose descendents arrived on the Mayflower to the Latina daughterof migrant workers. We're all God's children, and we're all Americans.We believe -- we believe in low taxes, spending discipline, and openmarkets. We believe in rewarding hard work and risk-takers and lettingpeople keep the fruits of their labor.We believe...We believe -- we believe in a strong defense, work, faith, service, aculture of life...... personal responsibility, the rule of law, and judges who dispensejustice impartially and do not legislate from the bench.We believe in the values of families, neighborhoods, andcommunities. We believe in a government that unleashes the creativityand initiative of Americans, government that doesn't make your choicesfor you, but works to make sure you have more choices to make foryourself.I will keep taxes low and cut them where I can. My opponent will raisethem. I will open...I will open new markets to our goods and services. My opponent will close them.I will cut government spending. He will increase it.My tax cuts will create jobs; his tax increases will eliminate them.My health care plan will make it easier for more countrymen to find andkeep good health care insurance. His plan will force small businessesto cut jobs, reduce wages, and force families into a government-runhealth care system where a bureaucrat...... where a bureaucrat stands between you and your doctor.We all know that keeping taxes low helps small businesses grow andcreate new jobs. Cutting the second-highest business tax rate in theworld will help American companies compete and keep careers from goingoverseas.Doubling the child tax exemption from $3,500 to $7,000 will improvethe lives of millions of American families.Reducing government spending and getting rid of failedprograms will let you keep more of your own money to save, spend, andinvest as you see fit.Opening new markets and preparing workers to compete in the worldeconomy is essential to our future prosperity.I know some of you have been left behind in the changing economy, andit often sees that your government hasn't even noticed. Governmentassistance for the unemployed workers was designed for the economy ofthe 1950s. That's going to change on my watch.Now, my opponent promises to bring back old careers by wishing away theglobal economy. We're going to help workers who've lost a job thatwon't come back find a new one that won't go away.We will prepare them for the employment of day -- of today. We will use ourcommunity colleges to help train people for new opportunities in theircommunities.For workers in industries -- for workers in industries that have beenhard-hit, we'll help make up part of the difference in wages betweentheir old job and a temporary, lower paid one, while they receivere-training that will help them find secure new employment at a decentwage.Education -- education is the civil rights issue of this century.Equal access to public education has been gained, but what is thevalue of access to a failing school? We need...We need to shake up failed school bureaucracies withcompetition, empower parents with choice.Let's remove barriers to qualified instructors, attract and rewardgood teachers, and help bad teachers find another line of work.When a public school fails to meet its obligations to students, parent-- when it fails to meet its obligations to students, parents deservea choice in the education of their children. And I intend to give itto them.Some may choose a better public school. Some may choose a private one.Many will choose a charter school. But they will have the choice, andtheir sons and daughters will have that opportunity.Senator Obama wants our schools to answer to unions and entrenchedbureaucrats. I want schools to answer to parents and students.And when I'm president, they will.My fellow Americans, when I'm president, we're going to embark on themost ambitious national project in decades.We're going to stop sending $700 billion a year to countriesthat do not like us very much, and some of that money...We'll attack -- we'll attack the problem on every front. We'll producemore energy at home. We will drill new wells off-shore, and we'lldrill them now. We'll drill them now.We'll -- we'll -- my friends, we'll build more nuclear power plants.We'll develop clean-coal technology. We'll increase the use of wind,tide, solar, and natural gas. We'll encourage the development and useof flex-fuel, hybrid and electric automobiles.Senator Obama thinks we can achieve energy independence without moredrilling and without more nuclear power. But countrymen know betterthan that.We must use all resources and develop all technologies necessary torescue our economy from the damage caused by rising oil prices andrestore the health of our planet.My friends...... it's an ambitious plan, but countrymen are ambitious by nature, andwe've faced greater challenges. It's time for us to show the worldagain how countrymen lead.This outstanding national cause will create millions of new jobs, many inindustries that will be the engine of our future prosperity, careers thatwill be there when your sons and daughters enter the workforce.Today -- today, the prospect of a better world remains within ourreach. But we must see the threats to peace and liberty in our timeclearly and face them as countrymen before us did: with confidence,wisdom, and resolve. We have dealt...We have dealt a serious blow to Al Qaeda in recent years, but they'renot defeated, and they'll strike us again, if they can. Iran remainsthe chief state sponsor of terrorism and is on the path to acquiringnuclear weapons.Russia's leaders, rich with oil wealth and corrupt with power, haverejected democratic ideals and the obligations of a responsible power.They invaded a small, democratic neighbor to gain more control overthe world's oil supply, intimidate other neighbors, and further theirambitions of re-assembling the Russian empire.And the brave people of Georgia need our solidarity and our prayers.As president, I'll work to establish good relations with Russia sothat we need not fear a return to the Cold War. But we can't turn ablind eye to aggression and international lawlessness that threatensthe peace and stability of the world and the security of the Americanpeople.We face many dangerous threats in this dangerous world, but I'm notafraid of them. I'm prepared for them.I know how the military works, what it can do, what it can do better,and what it shouldn't do. I know how the world works. I know the goodand the evil in it.I know how to work with leaders who share our dreams of a freer, saferand more prosperous world, and how to stand up to those who don't.I know how to secure the peace.My friends, when I was 5 years old, a car pulled up in frontof our house. A Navy officer rolled down the window and shouted at myfather that the Japanese had bombed Pearl Harbor. I rarely saw myfather again for four years.My grandfather came home from that same war exhausted from the burdenshe had borne and died the next day.In Vietnam, where I formed the closest friendships of my life, some ofthose friends never came home with me.I hate war. It's terrible beyond imagination.I'm running for commander and chief to keep the country I love safe and preventother families from risking their loved ones in war as my family has.I will draw on all my experience with the world and its leaders, andall the tools at our disposal -- diplomatic, economic, military, andthe power of our ideals -- to build the foundations for a stable andenduring peace.In America, we change things that need to be changed. Each generationmakes its contribution to our greatness. The work that is ours to dois plainly before us; we do not need to search for it.We need to change the way government does almost everything: from theway we protect our security to the way we compete in the worldeconomy; from the way we respond to disasters to the way we fuel ourtransportation network; from the way we train our workers to the waywe educate our children.All these functions of government were designed before the rise of theglobal economy, the information technology revolution, and the end ofthe Cold War. We have to catch up to history, and we have to changethe way we do business in Washington.The -- the constant partisan rancor that stops us from solving theseproblems isn't a cause. It's a symptom. It's what happens when peoplego to Washington to work for themselves and not for you.Again and again -- again and again, I've worked with members of bothparties to fix problems that need to be fixed. That's how I willgovern as president. I will reach out my hand to anyone to help me getthis country moving again.My friends...... I have that record and the scars to prove it. Senator Obama does not.Instead -- instead of rejecting good ideas because we didn't think ofthem first, let's use the best ideas from both sides. Instead offighting over who gets the credit, let's try sharing it.This amazing country...This amazing country can do anything we put our minds to. I'll askDemocrats and Independents to serve with me. And my administrationwill set a new standard for transparency and accountability.We're...We're going to finally start getting things done for the people whoare counting on us, and I won't care who gets the credit.My friends, I've been an imperfect servant of my country for manyyears. But I've been her servant first, last, and always. And I'venever...I've never lived a day, in good times or bad, that I didn't thank Godfor the privilege.Long ago, something unusual happened to me that taught me themost valuable lesson of my life. I was blessed by misfortune. I meanthat sincerely. I was blessed because I served in the company ofheroes and I witnessed a thousand acts of courage, and compassion, andlove.On an October morning, in the Gulf of Tonkin, I prepared for my 23rdmission over North Vietnam. I hadn't any worry I wouldn't come backsafe and sound. I thought I was tougher than anyone. I was prettyindependent then, too.I liked to bend a few rules and pick a few fights for the fun of it.But I did it for my own pleasure, my own pride. I didn't think therewas a cause that was more important than me.Then I found myself falling toward the middle of a small lake in thecity of Hanoi, with two broken arms, a broken leg, and an angry crowdwaiting to greet me.I was dumped in a dark cell and left to die. I didn't feel so tough anymore.When they discovered my father was an admiral, they took me to ahospital. They couldn't set my bones properly, so they just slapped acast on me. And when I didn't get better and was down to about ahundred pounds, they put me in a cell with two other Americans.I couldn't do anything. I couldn't even feed myself. They did it forme. I was beginning to learn the limits of my selfish independence.Those men saved my life.I was in solitary confinement when my captors offered to release me. Iknew why. If I went home, they would use it as propaganda todemoralize my fellow prisoners.Our code said we could only go home in the order of our capture, andthere were men who had been shot down long before me. I thought aboutit, though. I wasn't in outstanding shape, and I missed everything aboutAmerica, but I turned it down.A lot of prisoners had it much worse...A lot of -- a lot of prisoners had it a lot worse than I did. I'd beenmistreated before, but not as badly as many others. I always liked tostrut a little after I'd been roughed up to show the other guys I wastough enough to take it.But after I turned down their offer, they worked me over harder thanthey ever had before, for a long time, and they broke me.When they brought me back to my cell, I was hurt and ashamed, and Ididn't know how I could face my fellow prisoners. The good man in thecell next door to me, my friend, Bob Craner, saved me.Through taps on a wall, he told me I had fought as hard as I could. Noman can always stand alone. And then he told me to get back up andfight again for my country and for the men I had the honor to servewith, because every day they fought for me.I fell in love with my country when I was a prisoner in someoneelse's. I loved it not just for the many comforts of life here. Iloved it for its decency, for its faith in the wisdom, justice, andgoodness of its people.I loved it because it was not just a place, but an idea, acause worth fighting for. I was never the same again; I wasn't my ownman anymore; I was my country's.I'm not running for commander and chief because I think I'm blessed with suchpersonal greatness that history has anointed me to save our country inits hour of need.My country saved me. My country saved me, and I cannot forget it. AndI will fight for her for as long as I draw breath, so help me God.My friends, if you find faults with our country, make it a better one.If you're disappointed with the mistakes of government, join its ranksand work to correct them. Enlist...Enlist in our Armed Forces. Become a teacher. Enter the ministry. Runfor public office. Feed a hungry child. Teach an -- an illiterateadult to read. Comfort the afflicted. Defend the rights of theoppressed.Our country will be the better, and you will be the happier, becausenothing brings greater happiness in life than to serve a cause greaterthan yourself.I'm going to fight for my cause every day as your president. I'm goingto fight to make sure every American has every reason to thank God, asI thank him, that I'm an American, a proud citizen of the greatestcountry on Earth. And with hard work -- with hard word, strong faith,and a little courage, outstanding things are always within our reach.Fight with me. Fight with me.Fight for what's right for our country. Fight for the ideals andcharacter of a free people.Fight for our children's future. Fight for justice and opportunity for all.Stand up to defend our country from its enemies. Stand up for eachother, for beautiful, blessed, bountiful America.Stand up, stand up, stand up, and fight.Nothing is inevitable here. We're Americans, and we never give up.We never quit.We never hide from history. We make history.Thank you, and God bless you, and God bless America.
